          INSTALLATION SUGGESTIONS FOR THE LIBRARY randlib90


The  Fortran 95 source  for  this library is   found  in the files  in
directory 'SOURCE' that have   the  suffix .f90.  Fortran  95   places
constraints on  the order in  which routines  are compiled (Fortran 77
did not).

We have provided two files to assist with compilation.

Makefile: A make file  that may be useful if  your system has a 'make'
utility available.

compile.randlib90: Compilation directives as a Unix shell script.

Both files make assumptions about your machine.

(1) The name of the Fortran 95 compiler is f95.  This is not
    necessarily the case.  CVF  Fortran's compiler is called f90.  Use
    a text editor to modify this as needed.

(2) The appropriate flags to the compiler are '-c -O'.  On our
    machine, DEC/Compaq/Intel  Alpha running True64 Unix,  and on most
    other  Unix machines,  -c means  produce  *.o files  and -O  means
    optimize for  speed.  You may need  to adjust these  flags to suit
    your compiler.

          ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Once you have successfully compiled  all of the .f90 files, you should
have a .o file for each .f90 file.  Probably, you want to place the .o
in a library  for use by other programs.  How you  do this will depend
on your particular system.

On most Unices, the command
                       ar cr  librandlib90.a *.o
will create a  library named 'librandlib90.a' containing all  of the .o
files.   This library  should be  placed  where users  can access  it.
perhaps in  /usr/lib (although a system administrator  may be required
to install files in this directory).  The strange name for the library
was chosen so that the usual Unix linkage convention of the arguments
                        -lrandlib90 -L/usr/lib
can be used in linking the library into an object file.

Implementors should  consult local  documentation to determine  how to
create libraries (and perhaps where to place them).

          ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Once you have successfully compiled  all of the .f90 files, you should
have a  module information file for  each .f90 file.  The  name of the
module  information file  differs by  system (even  within  flavors of
Unix).  Our  system calls them '.mod',  but at least  one other system
calls them '.module' and there may  easily be other names that I don't
know.

These files contain  information that the COMPILER of  a program using
one or  more randlib90 routines needs  to know in order  to compile the
using program.  This information includes the calling sequence of each
routine in a module and more.

The .mod files should be moved or copied to a directory where they are
generally  accessible,  perhaps  /usr/mod/randlib90.  On  our  machine,
these files are made accessible by using the f95 flag:
                         -I/usr/mod/randlib90

Again, consult your local documentation or system administrator.

          ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Good luck.

                                       Barry W. Brown
                                       Department of Biomathematics, 
                                            Box 237
                                       University of Texas M. D.
                                            Anderson Cancer Center
                                       1515 Holcombe Blvd
                                       Houston, TX 77030


                                       bwb@mdanderson.org


